# Roadmap

This page lists the upcoming priorities that we're working on right now.
For past release notes, please see [Github](https://github.com/canvasxyz/canvas/releases).

## Roadmap

- [ ] Improving the experience around upgrading and hosting applications.
- [ ] Support for non-crypto, traditional web2 login.
- [ ] Support for application deployment on existing chains.
- [ ] Support for more efficient sync.
- [ ] Support for private data.

## 0.16.0 (2026-07-07)

This release implments a new topic format, so multiple contracts can be used in a single application (for partial replication, separated "rooms", etc.)

- Contracts initialized with `constructor()` args will now have a unique topic based on the hash of the arguments.
- Model contracts now take a `static topic = "..."` parameter, and class contracts now take a `topic` field.
- For class contracts, the full libp2p topic used for applications is now `example.com.Object`, optionally followed by the hash of the snapshot, code, and/or constructor arguments, e.g. `example.com.Object:e8ae8ec9...`.
- Enabled experimental support for browser-to-browser libp2p. To connect to a WebRTC mesh, call `.startLibp2p()` on a Canvas instance in the browser.

## 0.15.1 (2025-06-05)

- Allow class contracts to be initialized by calling `async initialize(topic: string)` on the contract directly. The first argument is passed to the contract constructor.
- Add sync status to apps.
- Add `useSyncState` hook for showing sync status on apps.

```ts
export type ClientSyncStatus = "offline" | "starting" | "inProgress" | "complete" | "error"
```

## 0.15 (2025-05-22)

This release implements two new syntaxes for contracts: class contracts
and model-only contracts.

- Add an API for defining applications as ES6 classes.
- Add an API for defining application contracts/databases without actions,
  where permissions are defined in a `$rules` object, similar to Firebase permissions.
- Add `db.create()` and `db.id()` methods for creating database records with
  autogenerated primary keys.
- Add `db.merge()` and `db.update()` methods for partial updates.
  These are only available inside transactions at this time.

## 0.14 (2025-04-18)

This releases includes significant changes to the main application API
around how actions are defined. This is the first version where the main
application APIs can be considered stable.

- Add Farcaster login support, inside frames using miniapp login, and outside frames using SIWF.
- Add basic login components, including a sign in/sign out React button.
- Add transactions, using the `db.transaction()` method.
- Reworked APIs like `db.set()` from scratch following the addition of transactions.
- Changed action API syntax from `action(db, ...args)` to `action(...args)`.